All right in this lecture we're going to be going over something called the rule of 60 percent.
Now the rule of 60 percent is not going to be taught to you almost anywhere.
I've run into very few people that actually know about the rule of 60 percent and I learned this when
I was interning at the animation studio when I was 17 and I learned it from a really good artist friend
of mine.
Now what is the rule of 60 percent.
Well the rule of 60 percent helps your perspective drawings from becoming distorted looking and what
it is is it's the role that you can only show 60 percent of your horizon line.
So from one vanishing point to another you can only show 60 percent of what's within that space otherwise
everything outside of that space becomes very distorted.
So let me show you what I mean.
So if I grab my ruler right here I have one vanishing point right here and I have another one right
over here.
And the distance between those two vanishing points is 10 inches.
So 60 percent of that would be six inches.
So that means four of those inches are extra that I don't want to show.
So what I would do is I would come in two inches from both sides so I'd come in two inches from this
vanishing point and then I would come in two inches from this vanishing point so too right there.
And so now I can only show within that space.
Otherwise everything outside that space looks too distorted and it doesn't look realistic.
You'd never see something that distorted in perspective.
But you would see that type of perspective right there.
So we can go ahead and now draw vertical lines coming up from each one of those points.
So
and now that's our composition right there.
That is our workspace to work in.
Now this is the reason why a lot of people get really frustrated with perspective drawing is because
their perspective drawings don't look very realistic because they're seeing really exaggerated lines.
Now you have the space that you can make a drawing within which you need to do next is you need to make
the same measurement but vertically.
And so we have six inches from here to there.
And so we need three inches on this side bottom side of our horizon line and three inches on the top
side.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So we'll go right there on our three and then we'll go ahead and add in a mark up here and that will
have a mark here.
And then we can go ahead and draw a line for our bottom horizontal line and want to for the top
like so and so now we have a guy we have a guide for where our picture can be.
So anything on the outside of this square we don't want to use now.
You can cut these edges off so that this is your only workspace.
But I recommend you don't do that till the very end of your drawing because you still need to know where
your vanishing points are.
So now if we wanted to continue drawing images in here we know where we want to put our objects.
So let's say that we wanted to add another box in here and we wanted to add it in.
Underneath all of these ones of all we know we need to keep it in this area and it can't be over here.
It can't be out of here.
We need to keep it within this area right here because if we leave the space of this box it's going
to become too distorted.
Now you don't have to use this entire box if you want.
You can bring this line up so that the bottom of your page goes right there and you can bring this lying
down or you can bring these lines in whatever you want to do.
You just need to make sure that you stay within this 60 percent box which is the 60 percent ratio between
your two vanishing points.
Really quick.
Let's go ahead and look at an example of this distortion.
So earlier we drew this picture of this house and this building which are incorrect perspective.
But you would never see this type of exaggeration in perspective.
So what we're doing wrong here is we're not applying the 60 percent rule.
So the 60 percent rule says we can only show 60 percent of our image and then we need to take that same
distance.
And we need to put it vertically.
And so really honestly probably this house will be getting cut off right about there if we were following
that rule and that's why that corner looks so strange and exaggerated is because it's out-of-bounds.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I really look forward to seeing you in tomorrow's lecture where
I'm going to draw for you guys a picture that is well rendered and uses to point perspective and then
we're going to apply it highlights and shadows to that as well as cast shadows so that you can see what
it looks like to draw an actual really well rendered drawing using all the techniques I've taught you
up to this point.